---
title: createViewModel
description: Generate the view model for the table
sidebar_title: → createViewModel
---

<script>
  import { useHljs } from '$lib/utils/useHljs';
  useHljs('ts');
</script>

# {$frontmatter.title}

`Table#createViewModel` derives the view model that is applied onto markup. It is called on the table instance with `Column` instances, and returns a `TableViewModel`.

## Usage

---

### `Table#createViewModel: (columns) => TableViewModel`

`columns` is an array of `Column` instances returned from [`Table#createColumns`](./create-columns.md#table-createcolumns-columns-column).

```ts {4}
const table = createTable(data);
const columns = table.createColumns(...);
const viewModel = table.createViewModel(columns);
const {
  headerRows,
  rows,
  tableAttrs,
  tableBodyAttrs,
} = viewModel;
```

### `TableViewModel`

`TableViewModel` contains the `Readable` stores required to easily describe the structure of the table.

#### `TableViewModel#headerRows: Readable<HeaderRow[]>`

A `Readable` store with an array of `HeaderRow`s that represent `<tr>` elements in `<thead>`.

```svelte
<thead>
  {#each $headerRows as headerRow (headerRow.id)}
    <tr>...</tr>
  {/each}
</thead>
```

#### `TableViewModel#rows: Readable<BodyRow[]>`

A `Readable` store with an array of `BodyRow`s that represent `<tr>` elements in `<tbody>`.

```svelte
<tbody>
  {#each $rows as row (row.id)}
    <tr>...</tr>
  {/each}
</tbody>
```

#### `TableViewModel#tableAttrs: Readable<TableAttributes>`

A `Readable` store with attributes to apply onto the `<table>` element.

#### `TableViewModel#tableBodyAttrs: Readable<TableBodyAttributes>`

A `Readable` store with attributes to apply onto the `<tbody>` element.

#### `TableViewModel#pageRows: Readable<BodyRow[]>`

A `Readable` store with an array of `BodyRow`s that represent `<tr>` elements **of the current page** in `<tbody>`.

`$pageRows` is affected by pagination plugins while `$rows` is not. If no pagination plugin is used, `$pageRows` is equal to `$rows`.

```svelte
<tbody>
  {#each $pageRows as row (row.id)}
    <tr>...</tr>
  {/each}
</tbody>
```

#### `TableViewModel#originalRows: Readable<BodyRow[]>`

A `Readable` store with an array of `BodyRow`s that represent `<tr>` elements in `<tbody>` before plugin transformations.

#### `TableViewModel#dataColumns: DataColumn[]`

An array of `DataColumn`s that represent the data columns of the table before plugin transformations.

#### `TableViewModel#visibleColumns: Readable<DataColumn[]>`

A `Readable` store with an array of `DataColumn`s that represent the data columns of the table after plugin transformations.

#### `TableViewModel#pluginStates: PluginStates`

An object of plugin states exposed by each plugin used.

:::admonition type="tip"
See also [Plugin State](../plugins/overview#controlling-plugin-state).
:::
